Typically, lots of folks already have their own visions,their own ideas and aspirations.
And actually, the work of leadership is trying to bridge those two things, because it is true
that, especially for people of former leadership roles, we do want them to be people who bring new ideas.


And then, someone has to have some responsibility for creating the process that allow those different perspectives on where we ought
to be heading to be woven together into something that we can do together.


And that's one of the challenges that we've been really trying to work with in designing this is, doing that iterative back and forth work, between thinking about what do me and my own personal position, what am I bringing to this?


But how do I also figure out how all the people in my community who I work with, what do they think great teaching and learning looks like?
And how do I incorporate them? And us converse back and forth until we find some consensus on where we're headed.

But without personal vision, you don't get shared vision.

So this harmonizing or balancing of the personal and the collective is really quite central.


So first off, you've got to have a we.The we can be three people.It doesn't have to be 50 people.And then you have your own ideas,
and they're kind of connected, they're kind of not connected.That's natural, you don't have to agree.
We always say, please, don't worry about everybody agreeing.That kills everything.But you have to have enough alignment,
you can start to get to work.And then as you work on it, it gets refined.


I think the real risk there is there are a lot of teachers who are doing extraordinary things in the classroom,
and the learning from those experiences isn't transferring,isn't benefiting everyone else on the grade level
team, everyone else in that building.

I'll never forget, years ago hearing a master principal,a woman who had done amazing jobs-- a job over 10 years
to really shift the climate and culture in a school.And I asked her, so as you look back at that 10 years, what really stands out?
She said, the toughest thing I ever did was try to get teachers to team. I'll never forget her words.


But I actually think that even for innovation of an individual teacher in an individual classroom,
you need collaboration.



